---
layout: post
title: 'AI For Games: Week 11'
date: 2018-12-9 14:39:35
description: Eleventh week of undergrad AI gamedev course
tags: AI gamedev
categories:
---

### Retrospective & User Survey
This week I'll express my thoughts on my own work as well as asking others.

## My Retrospective
Overall, I'm happy with my final work for the assignment, I don't think it's by any means a good game, but it demonstrates my understanding of Artificial Intelligience for Games effectively. If I were to continue developming this game I think the first thing I'd do is make the file structure of my Godot project more coherent and understandable, I'd also add basic features of a game such as an ending, menu etc. I think my game is also distinctly lacking 'game juice' it feels really cold and static, camera shakes and smoother camera movement, colour and more advanced enemy reactions would really make my game more 'juicy'. A more consistent art style would be nice too, not a mash of assets I found online. Finally, some more gameplay features:
- Random levels
- Destroying enemies
- Distraction tools
- Movement tools (teleportation etc)
- AI learning perhaps like Metal Gear Solid V where enemies wear helmets if you use too many headshots etc.

## User Survey
I asked a few (10) friends and family to take a look at my game, and then quizzed them afterwards. Here are the results

### Do you think I made good use of AI in my game? (y: 8, n: 2)
People generally thought that yes I had. I got 2 'no' answers, here are the reasons I got when I enquired:
- Bad positioning of enemies
- Enemies don't look for the player, they just go to where they last saw them
- The queen doesn't seem like a genuine threat

### Were the controls intuitive? (y: 7, n: 3)
It's pretty standard controls so I expected this response, The little negative feedback was from people who don't really play games.
- No tutorial

### Was my game fun? (y: 3, n: 7)
I got an overall negative response to this:
- Game was too easy
- Not much player interaction with enemies and environment
- Enemies aren't a real threat
- Very little to do

### Additional thoughts?
- Game is ugly
- Player is a bit stiff
- Add weapons
- Add more levels
- Add a menu and ui
- A hp system
- Remove the queen
