---
layout: post
title: 'AI For Games: Week 10'
date: 2018-12-2 14:20:10
description: Tenth week of undergrad AI gamedev course
tags: AI gamedev
categories:
---
### Bug fixing
I spent the final week fixing bugs! I also added a visual representation of the last known location

## Last Known location
Each enemy holds a last known location model that becomes visible when they cant see the player but are suspicious, its position is set to the last place they saw the player.

## Bugs
### Movement bug
I encountered a bug where the enemies moved really jerky, I figured out the fix was having a static interpolation point instead of using the players position, but the jerkeyness reminded me of chess pieces so I thought why not make the enemies of my game chess pieces! So this bug became a feature.

### Rotation bug
When the enemy rotated it rotated the ray that is cast, for this one I just set the rotation of the ray to 0 when I rotate the enemy.

### Pathfinding bug
A mixup in global and local coordinates caused all enemies to move to the same point when the player was spotted. I just switched the local position to global position when getting the path to the player and it fixed it.

### Enemies spotting the player through walls
When the enemies when from suspicious to calm they would spot players, this is because of a bug where it wasnt checking if it could see players when the enemy was slightly suspicous but couldn't see them, causing the detection meter to rise.

### Player would get stuck on walls
I used the move_and_collide method instead of the move_and_slide, move and slide moves the player along the object on collision, allowing it to move while touching walls.

### Player would stop while changing direction
This was because I was setting my movement vector to 0 after every key release, not checking if another key was using it.

## Conclusion
These were all the bugs I found, there are probably more as there are with every game, but I'm happy with how much I fixed. And other ones are not blatantly obvious so they're less of an issue.
